# Xel'tra's Backstory

## Valeran Empire

[[Xel'tra Amaranth]] was born Xel’tra (LAST NAME OF EMPRESS ZALA). She was conceived as the bastard child of the [[Empress Zala]] and an orc named [[Gunug Bristlebraun]], an Orcish keeper of the (WHATEVER THOSE CRYSTALS ARE THAT THE ELVES DRAW THEIR POWER FROM). She had been inspecting some of the crystals as part of the beginning of some ritual the elves regularly have involving the crystals. Gunug had spoken out of turn and the Valeran guard was about to punish him for disrespecting the Empress, but Zala stepped in and stopped the guards, instead taking Gunug with her because his comment amused her. They were in regular contact after this and became good friends, but one night the two of them made a mistake and slept together after having too much wine in one of Zala’s private social chambers for guests.

The Valeran high priests were appalled at her pregnancy (either because she was already wed to someone else or had not been wed or some other "this is improper" reason, you can let me know the reason for this) but were begrudgingly convinced to allow Zala to bear the child and take the child under their wing to be raised in secret. During the Empress’s pregnancy, she was hidden away and had delegates attend official events in her stead, using the excuse that she had fallen ill and was unable to attend these things in any suitable capacity. Xel’tra was eventually born and was constrained to a small, closed-off section of the Valeran palace (or similar government structure, wherever the Empress lives) to grow up, sort of a Rapunzel-esque situation. 

The high priests would regularly visit her, educate her, and raise her, and even ran her through combat and self defense training at quite a young age. Despite having much interaction with the high priests, Xel’tra could tell they had a distaste for her and longed to reunite with her mother, who unbeknownst to Xel’tra was both too busy with her official duties and ashamed of her daughter’s birth to visit regularly. Eventually, Xel’tra had enough and snuck out of her quarters, bursting in on an official meeting Zala was having with her advisors and accidentally revealing her existence to them. The advisors, noticing her resemblance to Empress Zala, managed to put two and two together and were outraged, questioning whether or not Zala was even fit to rule and demanding that the empress “erase the evidence” of her “transgression”, i.e. asking her to execute Xel’tra to “restore the honor of the Empire”. Zala could not bring herself to do this, as even though she was ashamed of Xel’tra she could not bring herself to kill her as she saw too much of Gunug in her, and wouldn’t be able to forgive herself or face Gunug again given the two never stopped being friends. Note: Gunug is unaware that Zala was even pregnant in the first place.

## Exile

The Empress instead decided to exile Xel’tra, casting her out into the wilds outside the Empire of [[Valero]] and telling her never to return. Xel’tra was given some rations and basic tools to survive, and thanks to her training was able to survive easily enough for a while. However, she ran out of the rations she was given before finding civilization on the other side of the wilderness and eventually collapsed from hunger and general exposure. Luckily, a halfling hermit named [[Anhorn Littlebrush]] found her and brought her back to health.  She spent quite a bit of time in the wilderness with him, even taking on his accent as he was her only form of humanoid contact for several months. Once Xel’tra was able to walk again, Anhorn started teaching her some survival basics out in the wilderness, specifically showing her how to make filling meals from the grains of Amaranths native to the area, telling her **"forget not the Amaranths, the unfading flower, which will sustain you in these wilds and prevent you from fading as well."** Out of thanks and respect for Anhorn and his helping her, she took the name Amaranth, identifying with the flower’s unwavering qualities and being thankful for sustaining her over the weeks to come as she left Anhorn and continued her journey to find somewhere else to live.

## To the Desert

She emerged from the woods and entered the desert, where she would eventually find [[Ahn’Qiraj]], a town known for its incredible craftsmanship and control of elemental energy. Xel’tra lived homeless for some time before meeting a human blacksmith named [[Steelhorn Thunderhammer]]. Xel’tra first ran into Steelhorn while Steelhorn was on her way from her smithy to purchase raw materials from travelling salespeople and miners in the area. At the time, Xel’tra was making money at the time by tracking down and exterminating baby rust monsters, who would frequently get into people’s homes from the desert outside and destroy their cutlery and especially blacksmiths’ wares. Steelhorn paid Xel’tra to clear out the smithy but after noticing Xel’tra’s drive and chatting with her a bit, Steelhorn offered to take Xel’tra under her wing and train her in the ways of smithing and elemental imbuement. She stayed at Steelhorn’s smithy for about 50 years, eventually outliving her and taking over the practice.

Eventually, she met and fell in love with an elf who worked in a baker’s shop in town named [[Tinesi Dayarus]]. They regularly met when Xel’tra shopped for groceries, and the two grew close; they started dating and eventually married one another. They also adopted a tiefling child named [[Acatea Suyusi]], who they started to raise and care for. It was a good life for a time, until the demise of Ahn’Qiraj. 

## Destruction of Ahn'Qiraj

It turned out that the methods the people there used to imbue elemental energy into weapons and other tools were stolen from the gods, so a dragon called [[Sutek the Storm King]] was sent to erase the stolen techniques from the realm of mortals. Xel’tra was out in town with Acatea when the destruction started. At first they weren’t sure what was going on; they both heard screaming from the southern end of town, then the scent of smoke and seared flesh started wafting into their nostrils. Before Xel’tra could react, Sutek suddenly emerged over the top of a row of buildings, bearing down a path of destruction with his lightning breath. As the ray of lightning raced across the ground in front of Xel’tra, she froze in fear, the awesome power overwhelming her senses. It happened in an instant: Xel’tra was thrown sideways in a hailstorm of stone and metal shards as the ground was torn apart next to her. She hit her head on the side of a stall in the market and blacked out. 

When she awoke, she saw the crumpled body of her daughter on the ground next to her. As she went to inspect the body, she realized it was too late. Her daughter had died in the blast. Mortified, a deathly chill overcame Xel’tra’s body as she failed to process the scene. Several moments passed, and all her pain and agony came out at once through her mouth as she screamed until her throat went raw. After she lost her voice, she went over the situation again and realized she should get back to the smithy to see what had happened to Tinesi. Perhaps she could make it in time before the same fate befell her wife. She came back to the smithy, now mostly a pile of rubble, and desperately clawed at the pile of stone which had once been her place of work and home. As she did so, she came across several tattered pieces of Tinesi’s favorite dress, which she had been wearing that day. There was a chance. She started working more carefully, making sure not to disturb the rubble in the event Tinesi was trapped inside. The first trace of her she found was a finger, poking out from between several pieces of the carved sandstone that once served as the moulding of their home. With renewed determination, Xel’tra managed to uncover her wife from the rubble, who had been encased in an air pocket the whole time. She pulled her close, managing to choke out quiet sobs in the desert’s cold night air. As she did so, she noticed Tinesi’s faint, shallow breathing. She was just unconscious, and would recover with time.

However, the time spent alone did not do Xel’tra any favors as she went through the events of the day over and over. “If I had just been able to grab Acatea- if I had just not frozen at that moment… maybe the three of us would still be together” she thought to herself. Her thoughts began to spiral along those lines as she started blaming herself for the death of her daughter. No, their daughter. “Tinesi won’t possibly forgive me. How can I face her when she wakes up?” she thought to herself. She didn’t sleep that night.

Morning came, and Tinesi spotted Xel’tra huddled in a corner where she had been all night. Noticing her rising, Xel’tra turned her head away in shame, continuing to think their daughter’s death was her fault. Observing the destruction around the two of them, Tinesi began to panic and started asking Xel’tra what had happened. Xel’tra remained silent for a while, but as Tinesi grabbed her clothing and begged her to explain what she had missed in her unconsciousness Xel’tra finally managed to croak out the events of the past day. They stayed in stunned silence for a few moments, both still not quite believing what had happened. Finally, Tinesi got to her feet and held out her hand. “Let’s go,” she said. “We can’t stay here. Where’s Acatea’s body? We should at least send her off properly.” Xel’tra looked up at Tinesi, confusing the pain in her eyes as disdain for her. That confirmed it to Xel’tra. She mistakenly thought to herself that Tinesi also blamed her for their loss. She slowly stood up, and the two of them set out to bury their lost daughter and find somewhere to start over.

They eventually arrived at a neighboring town and managed to put down roots. However, the shock from the events in [[Ahn’Qiraj]] still weighed upon Xel’tra. Still thinking Acatea’s death was her fault, she convinced herself that Tinesi hated her and began to drive a wedge between them over time. Tinesi tried to convince Xel’tra that there was nothing she could have done and that Acatea’s death was an accident, but Xel’tra couldn’t accept it after having seen how Tinesi looked at her that morning. In fact, the desert in general just resurfaced memories of the events that transpired that fateful day when Sutek had stolen her home and life away. She couldn’t take it anymore, and left during the night with the horse and carriage she and Tinesi shared, leaving a note to her wife saying goodbye and that perhaps she could live an easier life without constantly being around their daughter’s murderer. The only direction she could think to go in that moment was back toward the wilds where she had first come from as a child. Maybe there was something about them that gave her comfort - although she was closed off from most of the Empire, she did have a good life as a child in that section of the palace where she grew up. Maybe she just needed to return home. Now that she was older, maybe she could find some way to prove herself to her mother and become accepted once again.

## Return to Valero

As she passed through the wilderness once again she remembered that she could not simply return to the Empire. She was exiled after all. So she set off in a different direction, parallel to the border of the Empire’s territory. She arrived at a medium-sized town just outside the Empire’s territory, where she started a new life for herself. In this town, she began to use the skills she had learned in [[Ahn’Qiraj]] to build tools and weapons of the highest quality. She was able to imbue them with elemental power, and as this was a skill that was lost during the destruction of her old home her work became highly demanded. Imagine - a knife that could magically emit heat to cut through butter! The products became all the rage. Her little smithy eventually turned into a medium-sized forge, and eventually into a massive foundry. It became large enough to be a small corporation - now named [[Xel’aca Manufacturing Incorporated]], partially named in honor of Acatea. It was around this time that word of growing tensions between the elves and the dwarves reached Xel’tra’s ears. She then saw an opportunity.

Xel’tra began trading several missives with Empress Zala, promising her a full elimination of the threat of the [[Racklaw Clan]] in exchange for an immediate rescinding of her exile within the Valero Empire, and a promise of title and official reintegration to the imperial family once the threat was eliminated. After receiving a letter with the imperial seal saying Zala accepted the terms of the agreement, Xel’tra assembled an armed caravan, applied prosthetics to the pointy tips of her ears to hide them, and set out for her homeland once again...

Test